Let's go over custom
directives really quickly.
They are really awesome.
I mean, if you remember all
of the interesting, fun
things that we could do with directives
really quickly and declaratively.
You might run into
a time when you're like,
I want to do this one
thing pretty commonly.
Or I want to plug into this piece of HTML
often, but there isn't a directive for it.
Well, you can make your own,
and that's so cool.
So, if I'm using this pinned example,
I'll say v-pin,
I will now be pinned onto the page.
I have my app.
And then I say,
remember how we said app.component?
We will say app.directive,
we will call it pin.
It will always start with a v dash,
and whatever the name is,
just to be consistent with
all of the other directives.
So it will be v-pin.
And we say mounted,
we pass in the el and the binding.
And I can say, el.style.position.fixed.
So basically all this is doing
Is adding a style of position fixed to
whatever the element it's resting on.
That's cool, but it doesn't do much right?
I might as well have
just written a style for
that in a global stylesheet, it doesn't
necessarily need to be a directive.
So let's take it a step further.
And in order to take it a step further,
let's talk through these directives little
bit at a time, so
you understand what these arguments are.
So the example like you just saw
will instantiate a directive but
doesn't accept any arguments.
So without passing a value, it's pretty
brittle, it's not very flexible.
But you could still hang some piece of
functionality off of the DOM element.
Here's one step further,
v-example="value".
Remember, v model and
we're connecting to something.
This will pass a value into the directive,
and
that directive figures out what
to do based off of that value.
So div v-if example, and
then that's evaluating to true or
false or something like that.
So that was how that one was made.
v-example is string,
note the font's a little strange,
but you can see that there's
a string passed into that string.
This will let you use a string as an
expression, like we saw with v-html, where
we could pass in a link or strong tags,
or something of that nature to v-html.
V-example:arg="value".
This is like the v-bind or
v-on that we saw before where
we have v-example, and
then we add a colon and value.
This allows us to pass in
an argument to the directive.
In the example below we're
binding to a class, and
we'd style it with an object
stored separately.
So we're saying v-bind, and
I'm saying class or I could say style.
So I'm passing this piece in,
that's an argument.
I could say class, style,
whatever it is, and some class object.
v-example:arg.modifier.value, this
allows us to use a modifier.
The example below allows us to call
preventDefault() on the click event.
So, what's nice about Vue 3 is previously,
when we were working
with custom directives, they had all of
their own life cycle methods and hooks.
In Vue 3, we just change them to be the
same as the component life cycle methods,
which is nice.
Because now you don't have to learn
a whole other thing in order to work with
directives.
They use beforeMount, mounted,
beforeUpdate, updated,
beforeUnmount, and unmounted.
This makes it much more simple to
understand what's happening when we're
mounting and
unmounting elements into the DOM.
So v-pin, this was our first example.
It's got that el.style.position.
As we said, not very good.
Our next one is v-pin 70.
So I'm gonna say pin me 70
pixels from the top of the page.
So I'm passing in mounted,
because I'm grabbing that el.
I'm saying el and binding,
I'm saying the position is fixed, and
the top equals binding.value + pixels.
So that's a little bit better.
If we look at this,
we're scrolling down the page.
So what it's doing is,
it's styling that element.
It's making its position fixed.
And whatever we pass in here,
it will add pixels at the end and
create that top, right?
So now we're able to pin it and
able to do that a little bit better.
Now we can pass an argument.
So let's say we wanted to pin it, but we
might want to pass in multiple directions.
So we might want to say top and
left and up and down or whatever.
So I could have wrote left here, but
I'm going to show you one step further.
Let's say direction was
something that's dynamic too.
So, inside the Vue app, what we could do,
is we could pass in that direction and
that 200 pixels.
So now I can say,
all right, position fixed.
If nothing is declared, just make it top,
but if something is declared,
make it whatever direction we have,
and then the binding.value.
So if we look at this pin, stick me 200
pixel pixels from the right of the page.
And if we look in the JavaScript here,
you can see the direction is right.
I could also say direction is top here.
And now it will stick from the top of the
page instead of to the right of the page.
So that makes it able to be
dynamic in multiple directions.
I can now pass it in and stick it 200,
300 wherever and
also change the direction, super cool.
We could also make it
really dynamic in binding.
I could say the direction,
I could say the pin padding, and
I could say both the mounted and updated.
And why I'm saying both mounted and
updated is
the mounted hook is only firing right when
that thing is first coming onto the page.
But now I'm saying do it
all the time [LAUGH].
Go and grab it anytime something is
updated, go and update this as well.
So this allows me to make
really dynamic arguments.
And you can make all sorts of Vue
directives that do all sorts of things.
So let's do something really fun.
We're going to hook into a scroll event.
We can use libraries like ScrollTrigger.
There's a really great library from
GreenSock that handles scroll events, and
things like that.
But maybe we should just make one
with a directive that's a scroll.
So we're binding to the event
listener of scroll, and
then we're able to say like, okay,
if the scroll top is at this point,
then fire this animation or
do something else.
So we can create a directive that
allows us to hook into scroll.
So we have this v-scroll handleScroll,
that method has that animation logic.
And now when I scroll, that comes up.
And I didn't have to load it.
I mean, I'm using GreenSock, but I'm not
loading any plugins or any extra stuff.
I could have used Waypoints and all these
other libraries, but I can really just
create as much as I want
with that directive.
So I'm using this to create this data
visualization that does these kind of
scrolly telling things with D3 where
we can tell a story about fireballs.
And I don't know much about fireballs,
so right now it's lorem ipsum.
But [LAUGH] eventually this will have
real data and I will open source it.